POLITICALLY CORRECT
Marci Owens: Saying something that could offend
people without offending people.
Duck Bae: Using one word as opposed to another.
Jerrell Davis: Politically correct. That's
that's, that's some shit white people made up,
to be straight up like, I didn't even
hear that term until I got to college.
Darrell Hillaire: It's something that those
people in the non-Indian world use quite often.
You know, we gotta be politically correct,
we get a call them Native Americans, not Indians.
Greg RIckel: I think it always was to a degree.
How do you say things nicely.
And in ways that will not hurt people.
Tariqa Waters: I hate political correctness.
Oh it gets on my nerves, and I don't think it's needed.
It ruined our ability to communicate
with one another, where you could call somebody out
for being whatever they were being to
you. If somebody said something that was offensive,
you knew it immediately, they were being offensive.
Now, to me, it's more offensive if you are
really trying to figure out how not to offend
me. I don't think you're really expressing
how you truly feel when you're being so politically
correct.
Autumn Bennett: Making sure that we don't
offend and we just sort of maintain this like neutral.
You're just too afraid to take a
stance.
Keli Carender: You know, saying things that
are found to be acceptable within a certain box.
Duck: Opponents would argue that it's sugarcoating
or pandering to another group of people.
Proponents would say that it's only what's right. It's
just basic human decency,
that we treat others with respect.
Greg Rickel: I really prefer to use the word,
the word “civility.”
Autumn: There's a difference between, you
know, being an asshole and just speaking what
could be truth. It is politically incorrect
to say that you can't change your gender.
It is politically incorrect to say that Black
Lives Matter movement is racist. But I believe
those things to be true, and I don't believe
them to be insulting or mean.
Mark Olsen: I think if we substituted like
being polite or politeness instead of politically correct.
I think we might actually make some
progress.
Jerrell: When people talk about being politically
correct, it's like, “You can't say it like that."
They don't say, “You shouldn't say that.” They don't say “You shouldn't think like that.”
You just can't say it like that.
Rachael DeCruz: I go back and forth in my
mind about whether or not it's better to have
somebody be blatantly racist or just kind
of say the right things but then
actually be racist.
Mark: I think people don't enjoy feeling that there's
restrictions on what they can and cannot say.
Sean Riley: People talk about political correctness
derisively because it's
“What should I not say?”
And I would like to frame things around
well, how do I make sure I say things that
respect the dignity and the humanity of the
person in front of me. So it's not like avoiding
getting caught, but it's proactively engaging
with others and their dignity.
Keli: I don't think that we should be putting
labels on whole vast parts of our language,
trying to make them unacceptable. When you take away free speech, I mean you, you kill a free society.
Lucas Nydam: A lot of people say political
correctness is limiting free speech, but I
think like when people just dismiss criticism
as being politically correct and don't address it,
that's more limiting to free speech. Like,
people bring up like, “Hey you might be
being racist, whether intentionally or unintentionally.” And people are like “No, you're just being politically correct.”
And then they just dismiss that argument without ever really addressing it.
Louis Chude-Sokei: Now, you're being checked,
they say “What do you mean by that? Wait
a minute, that's wrong. What about this?”
Right. And so the people who are most hostile
to this thing called politically correct are
people who don't like to be checked, right.
And people who feel that their power and authority
is being whittled away by being checked.
But what they were responding to was people saying
that look, not only do your words and ideas
have repercussions in the immediate world
around you, right. There are more and more
people who are feeling empowered to check
you. And that's what people are upset about.
JOIN THE CONVERSATION